# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* The game is missing key components that would make it a functioning game such as a goal and a way to interact with an opponent
* there's still a small amount of bugfixing that needs to be done on the movement
* there's no multiplayer
* the game is missing important UI pieces such as a controls popup (currently only placeholder), a way to exit an active game and settings.

## Maintenance

currently there's no multiplayer and the game hasn't been made into a distributable format so maintanace is a tricky thing to think about. This is still very much just a prototype in development.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

* movement has some bugs left to fix.
* the placeholder for the controls button on the menu could be replaced with a helpful image

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

The game is in an unfinished state. Adressing this would require adding a lot of new content to the game to ensure that there's a goal and interaction. Making this into a multiplayer game might also take significant reworking. Realisticly it would be best to finish the prototype with a projectile system and some interaction between the player and an AI then if the prototype is promising transition to a better framework. The Phaser framework has limitations and a HTML game hasn't got any profitability. Frameworks that could be used include

* Unity engine
* Unreal engine
* CryEngine
* Godot

really unity and unreal engine are standout choices in this list and are likely to be much easier to use and give greater returns. Through these game engines creating a game with multiplayer support and building on the computational concepts that are easy to carry over from the prototype would be a simple process.
