# 3.1 Testing for Function and Robustness

## Criteria To Assess

Find success criteria that relate to function and robustness

| Criterion | Description                                      |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| 1         | display a window                                 |
| 2         | gameloop                                         |
| 3         | Event Handling for input                         |
| 17        | Doesn't crash                                    |
| 18        | smooth framerate ideally at or within 10% of cap |

### Criterion 1-3: "Framework functions"

I decided to use a framework for my project instead of making my own so these functions can be grouped together as being provided for by the framwork. It took some time to get Phaser working but these functions all worked after implementation in 2.3.1 Cycle1 and were used in several of my subsequent Cycles. The gameloop sees use in Cycle 5 where I tab in to delta time to ensure movement is smooth and in general throughout the project. I use the input event handling built in with phaser heavily in Cycles 11 and 12 (2.3.11 and 2.3.12). None of what I did couldn't have been done without a game window, Phaser uses HTML which displays in this case in a local browser session.

### Criterion 17: Doesn't crash

throughout the project I performed severl tests giving the game unusual inputs and seeing if it crashes/trying to accomodate for them. The game currently doesn't crash when I give it unusual inputs (like trying to issue a movement command with no ship selected) and also when I try to give it as much as possible to do/calculate as seen in the Criterion 5 stress test

### &#x20;Criterion 18: smooth framerate ideally at or within 10% of cap

framerate for most applications like google is capped at a certain amount depending on the user's monitor and system. For my system/monitor at the time of testing it was capped at just under 75HZ for the monitor with a very good GPU translating to just under 75 fps in practice. Therefore a test result of 67.5 fps or higher would be within acceptable range for this criterion.

#### testing:

I decided to stress test the game with a large amount of ships (9 player and 9 ai which don't do anything right now)

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/2023-01-01 22-04-38.mp4" %}

as you can see the fps is maintained at just under 75. I count this as a glorious success
