# 1.1 Problem Identification

Strategy games have long been a way to challenge oneself intellectually, whether it's chess or go human civilisation has grown alongside the games that we play. Strategy games allow us to practice logical thought and game theory, understanding of how one action can affect the board-state of a game and what responses to expect from an opponent encourage planning and communication skills. Businesses can even make use of strategy games to practice real world strategy (Reeves and Wittenburg, 2015).

Furthermore, strategy games are great for practicing applying strategic thinking and elements of game theory whilst under pressure, think chess with a clock. Chess has several positive effects including preventing dementia (Lillo-Crespo et al., 2019) and is a past time that stimulates the brain strengthening neural pathways. Strategy games like chess that involve playing against an intelligent opponent foster the competetive spirit. The strategy game I intend to design should be similar to chess in it's potential to reward strategy and engage two or more players.

Currently the strategy game genre is dominated by MOBA games which are significantly more mainstream than older RTS games. RTS games have for a long time now been unable to make a significant breach into the mainstream market, their appeal lies largely in the minority of dedicated rts fans. I can either seek to embrace this and try to win over these fans or attempt to construct a more approachable and "exciting" RTS game (should be covered more in the stakeholders section).

I plan to take inspiration from the mechanics that create strategic variety in the games of the popular naval strategy game World of Warships and then utilize similar mechanics in a new strategy game. This is in an effort to create a space strategy game with immediately apparent strategic value to positioning, players have designed many different techniques to give them advantages in the micro of strategy games but often the strategy elements rely heavily on rock paper scissors gameplay. Whilst this game won't be without rock paper scissors gameplay elements, it's a design goal to focus the strategy on positioning of the different ships and reacting to the enemy player by altering this positioning of a limited amount of available ships. No new ships can be built to use rock paper scissors elements to gain an advantage.

One of the main issues is the collision between high skill players that want to take a multiplayer game like World of Warships more seriously with the more casual players. The players that want to take the game more seriously often become frustrated at the casual players in their team and that leads to a collision between the two groups which is to me really something strange. I believe this could be changed by putting the result of a game and the coordination of teamplay in the hands of a single player instead. this game would theoretically create a healthier community than many of the team based games mentioned and would offer players a chance to practice the interesting underlying strategy behind such games without needing to gather a group of skilled players together.

However, there's one last point to make there and that is that the potential for teamplay in games can be a very positive thing. If a group of players comes together for&#x20;





&#x20;

