# 1.3 Research

## World of Warships

Images are nice here...

### Overview

World of warships is a multiplayer game where players each command one ship in real time 12v12 battles. The player can use guns, torpedoes or planes to destroy the enemy team's ships and the goal is either to score 1000 points first, end up with the highest point score after 20 minutes or kill the entire enemy team. It's a game that plays host to a range of quite unique mechanics, some at most only really shared partially by tank simulator games and the way they influence gameplay in World of Warships is different from their influence on those tank simulator games. There are no respawns and no way for players to join partway through a battle, this has the effect of making HP a valuable resource for the player and competetive gameplay becomes incredibly dependent on the skill of a team instead of the skill of individual players because of the way impact of an individual is limited by this resource.

Why is any of this important? Well these are a lot of the things I want to emulate in my game. The goal is to create a game that inherits a lot of these elements and implements them in an RTS setting

### Aspect 1: AP and angles (of 2-4 aspects per solution?)

the main ammunition in the game AP (armour piercing) will richochet at an angle of incidence that is too large or shatter on armour it can't penetrate. The game uses a simple ballistics model and a constant unique to each ship K (krupp) to determine the penetration of a shell on impact, it then auto richochets on an angle of 60 degrees or more (lower for certain shells and ignored completely if the shell size is over 13.4 times the armour thickness) and if not the effective thickness of the armour at the angle of impact is calculated and the penetration value compared to it, if the penetration is greater than this value the shell goes through otherwise it shatters. The check is repeated for any armour layers after that. The shell fuse ignites after a certain threshold of armour is penetrated and lasts for a fixed time, when the fuse expires the shell detonates where it is, it will deal critical damage if the shell detonates in the ship's citadel, 1/6th damage if it detonates within another part of the ship and no damage if it detonates within a torpedo bulge.

this mechanic serves to create a reward to the team for creating crossfires and forcing the enemy to show their side because when the enemy ships are side on richochets are the least likely. Good positioning and angling armour against enemy shells is also rewarded with less incoming damage.

this is the main mechanic I'd like to replicate in some way. I would like to use the mechanic to create a similar effect in my RTS game. I would like to reward positioning your ships well and being able to keep track of the enemy threats and the angles they're creating. I could do this in a few different ways:

* give the weapons on ships bonus damage when the angle of impact is lower: simplest solution, doesn't require much calculation and whilst the most basic and perhaps boring it presents a simple reward for creating angles but also means that these numbers will have to be fine tuned in quite a different way from World of Warships and that ships will take damage from any angle with this same ammo (positive if I'm only implementing one ammo type).
* create a simplified version of the penetration system found in World of Warships. I'll only need to worry about two dimensions (although that doesn't really simplify it that much). To simply the system I can limit the armour to only an exterior layer and then do away with fuse timers to avoid having to do more complex calculations.
* create a more in depth version which inherits a lot of the aspects of the World of Warships equivalent. This version would potentially include multiple armour layers and fuse timers I could then implement a citadel or equivalent for ships leading to critical damage when struck there with a munition. I'm a bit apprehensive about the neccessity of this whilst it would be quite immpressive to pull this off I'm doubtfull the extra mechanics from implementing this would be meaningful for an RTS game.

### Aspect 2: Consumables (of 2-4 aspects per solution?)

The game gives players a set of consumables to use in battle, each has a number of charges (some infinite) and a coodldown until they can be used again after activation. The correct management of these consumables can give the player a significant advantage over their opponents, they can enable plays or provide answers to plays as well as giving the player a way to come back into the fight after taking significant damage and disengaging by healing. I would like to implement similar consumables, they function somewhat like abilities in most games and if there's enough time their addition will help flesh out the game.

### Aspect 3: Detection system (of 2-4 aspects per solution?)

Every ship in the game has a unique detection distance, this is the distance at which an enemy ship has to be to spot the ship. The game makes checks between the detection points of each ship , if the detection point of a ship in within the detection distance of another and has line of site that other ship is spotted for the first player's team. There are a few other ways to detect players which stem from consumables and an absolute detection range of 2km that applies behind smoke and line of sight blockers but the core system remains the same for each ship in the game.

The positioning of the detection point on each ship can create interesting scenarios such as when one ship is poking out from an island slightly but it's detection point is still obscured. This requires a lot of micro to sustain though so I'll have to consider whether or not I want to try eliminate this if I borrow from the detection system.



## World of Tanks (order of war gamemode)



## Homeworld Series (remastered)

### Overview

The only true RTS game of the list, since homeworld 3 hasn't been released as of the time of starting this project unfortunately I cannot include it in my research. The original games Homeworld 1 and Homeworld 2 are classics in space rts games. Released in 1999 and 2003, homeworld 1 was amongst the first RTS games to truly include 3d elements and the first set in space. The RTS elements from&#x20;

### Aspect 1: User interface elements (of 2-4 aspects per solution?)

the series makes use of several different UI elements intended to increase the playability of RTS games:

* grouping units
* selecting with left click and moving with right click

utilizing at least these UI elements is in my opinion mandatory for an RTS game, it's both the established norm (sharing ui elements with other games makes it easier for players to grasp your game) and incredibly practical and allows for a wide range of control including opening up micromanagement to highly proficient players. There are some additional elements to take inspiration from:

* spacebar activates a "scanner mode" which gives the player an overview of everything on the map from a distance
* the selected units are displayed at the bottom of the screen along with HP bars



{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Features I will Include" %}
| Feature             | Justification                               |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description | Some reason it's a good fit in this project |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Features I won't include" %}
| Feature             | Justification                                              |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description | Reason it's beyond the scope/not suitable for this project |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
