# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Gameplay (player interaction and user interface)

### Movement

somehow the player needs control over both the position that a ship will move to and the ship's turn rate or angling. In a realistic simulation of space ships should easily have the functionality to turn on the spot with the correct thruster setup but instead of allowing a constant turn rate for the ships, to give the players that use more forthought in positioning an advantage turn rate will be a funtion of the ship's velocity somewhat like: turn rate = f(v) + c where c is the base turn rate when stationary, v is the velocity and the function f() is some function which gives the desired range of turn rate for velocity. This turn rate will be aplied as a rotational transformation to the ship in the direction of the desired turn.\
Creating user interface functionality to allow the player control over this is a challenge, the end result needs to allow the player precision in movement (this is absolutely critical) and also not require too much micromanagement. I will attempt to use a queue of waypoints to achieve this movement, the ship will move towards the first coordinates in the queue when it gets to the desired position it will remove the entry from the queue and continue. When the player right clicks once it will clear the queue then add the coordinates of the point clicked on the 2d plane. When the player presses shift+right click instead of clearing the queue a coordinate gets added to the back of the queue. When moving the ship will move forwards whilst turning towards the waypoint, if the waypoint is&#x20;

### Attacking

The player should have enough control over the weapons that they can fire in a specific direction without selecting a target but also there should be a lock on mechanic, how it decides lead will have to be worked out/adjusted in development.

### Winning the match

When a player eliminates all of the opponent's ships they should win the match, in further development more win conditions could be added like a point based victory using objectives ilke kills or cap points to give either team points

## Underlying mechanics

### Ships

each ship will have a graphical design and will be comprised of a larger circular hitbox and then several segments of armor plating of different thickness that will act as lines and will interact with projectiles. The ship will also need a way to store information about it's position, direction (vector position and direction bearing likely) and velocity (vector). It needs to also contain info about the shells it fires which will be used when creating an object of that shell type. The ship will have a larger circle hitbox with a radius then an array of armor platings, when a projectile comes within the radius of the ship's center it triggers checks against the armor platings of the ship to determine whether or not it penetrates. Ships will have a hit point pool which upon reaching 0 or below will cause the ship to be destroyed.

### Projectiles

there will exist a class for each projectile type, each class has some variables that are assigned values by the constructer. When a ship fires a projectile it's method for firing a projectile is called and that ship calls the constructer of the projectile type chosen and passes the unique values of the ship's shell characteristics.

## rendering, gameloop and event handler (engine stuff)

I'll be using OpenGL to display a window and the ships. This area will probably need a bit of work.

### game window

the game will need to display in it's own window or maximized to allow the player a view into the game and an interface for interacting with the game

### frames/update

I'll need to render new frames whilst keeping the game logic running, the gameloop will handle this by controlling the times at which time steps in the game logic occur (when update methods are called) and when the game renders new frames. The gameloop will also likely need to somehow incorporate the event handler.

### Event handling

Event handling allows for a level of abstraction for events that are shared between different modules it'll also allow me to simplify input. In further development event handling could even be used to trigger sound events or play music.

## Multiplayer

instead of taking the time to design an ai for the player to play against I will attempt to implement multiplayer.

### Matchmaking:

matchmaking just needs to put pairs of players together into a game, players don't need to be matched by a rating/ranking.

### game hosting:

the server will ensure that the ships are all in the right position according to its most up to date information and will up

## Limitations

### Classes:

it would take too long to implement enough ships to make ship classes viable. This is definitely something for further development.
