---
description: >-
  The different computational methods which will allow the game to be
  effectively run on a computer and provide the gameplay experience to the user.
---

# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Abstraction is the process of removing unnecessary details from a problem so you are able to focus on the core details. Thinking abstractly is important in game design as it allows you to focus on the core features of the game, so you can create a playable and enjoyable game. The key abstractions that I will focus on are:

* the game will be primarily condensed down to two sets of objects, ships and projectiles
* the interactions between these ships and projectiles will be limited to a collision handler and ships generating projectiles
* the physics will be simplified (2d space so gravity won't be a concern) down to mostly just applying accelerations and then some basic calculations for effective penetration of a shell at whatever angle from an armor plating
* the stage will be empty space, possibly a background or some asteroids that act as hard cover for ships to simplify the level design.
* A simple user interface allowing the player to launch games and displaying the neccesary information about the player controlled ships during a game

## Thinking Ahead

Thinking ahead is about considering inputs and outputs in the frame of preconditions. Thinking ahead is important as it gives you the chance to picture the end result of a project whilst considering which components of this picture are important.

To keep on track I need to think about all the tasks which need to be done before starting to tackle the main problem. Some things will remain constant throughout the later development stages and whilst playing the game. This will need to include any of the engine/rendering components and the gameloop. These will handle event triggering, rendering, the continuity of user input and correct timing of updates in the physical logic and frames. I will need to get these things functioning correctly for me to then implement elements of the actual game.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

I will need to split the design of the game into tasks that I can complete procedurely in dev cycles, the different decomposed parts of code will be worked on one by one until they eventually come together to form the functioning game, any sections that don't work can then be fixed independantly.

## Thinking Logically

Thinking logically is about deciding what outcomes should be conditions of certain decisions. Thinking logically is important because it allows me to find the decision points in the game logic and to think about how the game's state will effect the outcomes.

* When the player gives a command to a ship that ship then needs to follow that command by shooting at the given target or moving to the location given by the player
* The program needs to be monitoring and decide when a player has won the battle.
* The game will monitor the projectiles and decide when calculations need to be made against a ship's armor plating and damage will have to be applied if a shell penetrates the right section
* The ships will need to be destroyed when they fall to 0 hp or below

## Thinking Concurrently
